README.md, before:

# Fogged
[![Build Status](https://travis-ci.org/gatemedia/fogged.svg?branch=master)](https://travis-ci.org/gatemedia/fogged)

Fogged is meant to ease the use of Resources which are saved on a cloud (Google Drive, AWS S3, Rackspace Files, Open Stack or others) in a Rails application.

Think about have a User with a S3 Resource as it's image or a Movie with many S3 Resources as thumbnails.

It provides a model, a controller and other Rails utils.

## Prerequisites
Fogged has been implemented for:
* Rails 4.2.x
* Ruby 2.x but should work for Ruby 1.9

However this gem is built against:
* ruby 2.0.0
* ruby 2.1.3
* ruby 2.2.2

## Installation

```shell
$ gem install fogged
```

or add to your `Gemfile`

```ruby
gem "fogged"
```

Copy the migrations from Fogged:
```shell
$ rake fogged:install:migrations
```

## Configuration
Fogged *needs* to be configured. Among other things you need to select a cloud provider. Fogged *will not* work out of the box without a configuration.

The easiest way to configure Fogged is to add a new initializer in your Rails application:

```ruby
# file: config/initializers/fogged.rb
Fogged.configure do |config|
  config.provider = :aws
  config.parent_controller = "MyBasicController"
  config.aws_key = ENV["AWS_KEY"]
  config.aws_secret = ENV["AWS_SECRET"]
  config.aws_bucket = ENV["AWS_BUCKET"]
  config.aws_region = ENV["AWS_REGION"]
end

Fogged.test_mode! if Rails.env.test?
```

* `provider`: the selected provider. Currently Fogged supports these: `:aws` (More to come?)
* `parent_controller`: the parent controller for the `ResourcesController`. Defaults to `"ApplicationController"`.

* `Fogged.test_mode!` will put Fogged into a test mode configuring it with a mock cloud storage.

### AWS S3 Config
* `aws_key`: Your AWS key.
* `aws_secret`: Your AWS secret.
* `aws_bucket`: The AWS bucket which will host the resources.
* `aws_region`: The AWS region. Optional.

## Optional support
### Zencoder
Fogged supports any type of resource. However, for video resources, Fogged provides a support for [Zencoder](https://zencoder.com/en/). When creating a new video, Fogged will enqueue a new job on Zencoder to create several thumbnails and several web compatible videos(namely a MPEG, H264 and WEBM).

To use this, just add the `zencoder` gem and Fogged will pick it up.

By default, Fogged will not check for the status of the running job in Zencoder. You can get notified by Zencoder setting the `ZENCODER_NOTIFICATION_URL` environment variable. When Zencoder is done encoding your video, it will post the result to `ZENCODER_NOTIFICATION_URL`. More info on [this](https://app.zencoder.com/docs/guides/getting-started/notifications#api_version_2). There is a route for handling this notification, see the router configuration below.

### Zencoder custom outputs
By default, Fogged will create 3 outputs: h264, mp4 and webm. In addition, 5 thumbnails will be created. You can instruct Fogged to create more outputs. To do so, simply use the `zencoder_additional_outputs` hook in the config to register additional outputs:

```ruby
# file: config/initializers/fogged.rb
Fogged.configure do |config|
  config.provider = :aws
  # ...
  config.zencoder_additional_outputs do |bucket, resource|
    # bucket is the target bucket name
    # resource is the current resource object for which a zencoder will be
    # created.
    {
      :url => "s3://#{bucket}/#{resource.token}-my_custom_output.ogv",
      :public => 1,
      :video_codec => "theora"
    }
  end
end
```

The block from the hook *must* return a hash or an array of hash with the expected properties for the field `outputs` on the Zencoder API. See the Zencoder [docs](https://app.zencoder.com/docs/api/encoding/general-output-settings) for more information.

### Image thumbnails
Fogged can auto create thumbnails for images. For this, you'll to need to have the `mini_magick` gem and any ActiveJob backend installed.

To configure the desired sizes, in the `Fogged.configure` block, use `thumbnail_sizes`:
```ruby
Fogged.configure do |config|
  # ...
  thumbnail_sizes = %w(50x50 150x150)
end
```

When processing an image, Fogged will enqueue as many jobs as necessary to create each thumbnail.

The thumbnail urls can be retrieved, using `Fogged::Resource#thumbnail_urls`.

## How to use it

### Model

The `Fogged::Resource` is the model. It provides some helper methods to get the content type, the public url and some flags to know if the resource is of type video or an image. In addition, when Zencoder is available, it also has some methods to get the encoding progress.

### Associations
Any `ActiveRecord::Base` object can have one or n resources.

To link with one resource, add a `resource_id` column and use `has_one_resource`.

```ruby
class Poster < ActiveRecord::Base
  has_one_resource
end
```

To link with multiple resources, you *must* have a join table and use `has_many_resources`.

```ruby
class MovieFoggedResource < ActiveRecord::Base
  belongs_to :movie
  belongs_to :resource, :class_name => "Fogged::Resource"
end


class Movie < ActiveRecord::Base
  has_many :movie_fogged_resources
  has_many_resources :through => :movie_fogged_resources
end
```

Both macros accept any option you could send to `belongs_to` and `has_many`. As an example, both associations are set with `:dependent => :destroy`. You can change this behavior with

```ruby
class Poster < ActiveRecord::Base
  has_one_resource :dependent => nil
end
```

### Controller
A `Fogged::ResourcesController` is provided. It *does not* handle the creation of Resource with the upload if the content. This upload is left to the clients. See the docs.

To install the controller routes, mount the `Fog::Engine` in your `routes.rb` file:
```ruby
# in routes.rb
mount Fogged::Engine => "/"
```

This will mount the following routes:
```shell
               confirm_resource PUT    /resources/:id/confirm(.:format)           fogged/resources#confirm
zencoder_notification_resources POST   /resources/zencoder_notification(.:format) fogged/resources#zencoder_notification
                      resources GET    /resources(.:format)                       fogged/resources#index
                                POST   /resources(.:format)                       fogged/resources#create
                   new_resource GET    /resources/new(.:format)                   fogged/resources#new
                  edit_resource GET    /resources/:id/edit(.:format)              fogged/resources#edit
                       resource GET    /resources/:id(.:format)                   fogged/resources#show
                                PATCH  /resources/:id(.:format)                   fogged/resources#update
                                PUT    /resources/:id(.:format)                   fogged/resources#update
                                DELETE /resources/:id(.:format)                   fogged/resources#destroy
```

Of course you can decide to mount it in a sub url:
```ruby
# in routes.rb
mount Fogged::Engine => "/files"
```

### Serializer
A `Fogged::ResourceSerializer` is provided. It is used by the `Fogged::ResourcesController` to serialize the `Fogged::Resource` object. If you are using Active Model Serializers in you project you can also reference it, to embed the `Fogged::Resource` into an other object.

## Dependencies

Fogged uses these libs:
* [Fog](http://fog.io). See all the supported [providers](http://fog.io/about/provider_documentation.html)
* [FastImage](https://github.com/sdsykes/fastimage)
* [Active Model Serializers](https://github.com/rails-api/active_model_serializers)

## License

This project rocks and uses MIT-LICENSE.

Commit message:

add support for inline thumbnails creation

README.md, after:

# Fogged
[![Build Status](https://travis-ci.org/gatemedia/fogged.svg?branch=master)](https://travis-ci.org/gatemedia/fogged)

Fogged is meant to ease the use of Resources which are saved on a cloud (Google Drive, AWS S3, Rackspace Files, Open Stack or others) in a Rails application.

Think about have a User with a S3 Resource as it's image or a Movie with many S3 Resources as thumbnails.

It provides a model, a controller and other Rails utils.

## Prerequisites
Fogged has been implemented for:
* Rails 4.2.x
* Ruby 2.x but should work for Ruby 1.9

However this gem is built against:
* ruby 2.0.0
* ruby 2.1.3
* ruby 2.2.2

## Installation

```shell
$ gem install fogged
```

or add to your `Gemfile`

```ruby
gem "fogged"
```

Copy the migrations from Fogged:
```shell
$ rake fogged:install:migrations
```

## Configuration
Fogged *needs* to be configured. Among other things you need to select a cloud provider. Fogged *will not* work out of the box without a configuration.

The easiest way to configure Fogged is to add a new initializer in your Rails application:

```ruby
# file: config/initializers/fogged.rb
Fogged.configure do |config|
  config.provider = :aws
  config.parent_controller = "MyBasicController"
  config.aws_key = ENV["AWS_KEY"]
  config.aws_secret = ENV["AWS_SECRET"]
  config.aws_bucket = ENV["AWS_BUCKET"]
  config.aws_region = ENV["AWS_REGION"]
end

Fogged.test_mode! if Rails.env.test?
```

* `provider`: the selected provider. Currently Fogged supports these: `:aws` (More to come?)
* `parent_controller`: the parent controller for the `ResourcesController`. Defaults to `"ApplicationController"`.

* `Fogged.test_mode!` will put Fogged into a test mode configuring it with a mock cloud storage.

### AWS S3 Config
* `aws_key`: Your AWS key.
* `aws_secret`: Your AWS secret.
* `aws_bucket`: The AWS bucket which will host the resources.
* `aws_region`: The AWS region. Optional.

## Optional support
### Zencoder
Fogged supports any type of resource. However, for video resources, Fogged provides a support for [Zencoder](https://zencoder.com/en/). When creating a new video, Fogged will enqueue a new job on Zencoder to create several thumbnails and several web compatible videos(namely a MPEG, H264 and WEBM).

To use this, just add the `zencoder` gem and Fogged will pick it up.

By default, Fogged will not check for the status of the running job in Zencoder. You can get notified by Zencoder setting the `ZENCODER_NOTIFICATION_URL` environment variable. When Zencoder is done encoding your video, it will post the result to `ZENCODER_NOTIFICATION_URL`. More info on [this](https://app.zencoder.com/docs/guides/getting-started/notifications#api_version_2). There is a route for handling this notification, see the router configuration below.

### Zencoder custom outputs
By default, Fogged will create 3 outputs: h264, mp4 and webm. In addition, 5 thumbnails will be created. You can instruct Fogged to create more outputs. To do so, simply use the `zencoder_additional_outputs` hook in the config to register additional outputs:

```ruby
# file: config/initializers/fogged.rb
Fogged.configure do |config|
  config.provider = :aws
  # ...
  config.zencoder_additional_outputs do |bucket, resource|
    # bucket is the target bucket name
    # resource is the current resource object for which a zencoder will be
    # created.
    {
      :url => "s3://#{bucket}/#{resource.token}-my_custom_output.ogv",
      :public => 1,
      :video_codec => "theora"
    }
  end
end
```

The block from the hook *must* return a hash or an array of hash with the expected properties for the field `outputs` on the Zencoder API. See the Zencoder [docs](https://app.zencoder.com/docs/api/encoding/general-output-settings) for more information.

### Image thumbnails
Fogged can auto create thumbnails for images. For this, you'll to need to have the `mini_magick` gem and any ActiveJob backend installed.

To configure the desired sizes, in the `Fogged.configure` block, use `thumbnail_sizes`:
```ruby
Fogged.configure do |config|
  # ...
  thumbnail_sizes = %w(50x50 150x150)
end
```

When processing an image, Fogged will enqueue as many jobs as necessary to create each thumbnail.

You can also decide to do it inline. When calling `Fogged::Resource#process!`, simple pass `true` and Fogged will execute thumbnails creation inlined within your process.

The thumbnail urls can be retrieved, using `Fogged::Resource#thumbnail_urls`.

## How to use it

### Model

The `Fogged::Resource` is the model. It provides some helper methods to get the content type, the public url and some flags to know if the resource is of type video or an image. In addition, when Zencoder is available, it also has some methods to get the encoding progress.

### Associations
Any `ActiveRecord::Base` object can have one or n resources.

To link with one resource, add a `resource_id` column and use `has_one_resource`.

```ruby
class Poster < ActiveRecord::Base
  has_one_resource
end
```

To link with multiple resources, you *must* have a join table and use `has_many_resources`.

```ruby
class MovieFoggedResource < ActiveRecord::Base
  belongs_to :movie
  belongs_to :resource, :class_name => "Fogged::Resource"
end


class Movie < ActiveRecord::Base
  has_many :movie_fogged_resources
  has_many_resources :through => :movie_fogged_resources
end
```

Both macros accept any option you could send to `belongs_to` and `has_many`. As an example, both associations are set with `:dependent => :destroy`. You can change this behavior with

```ruby
class Poster < ActiveRecord::Base
  has_one_resource :dependent => nil
end
```

### Controller
A `Fogged::ResourcesController` is provided. It *does not* handle the creation of Resource with the upload if the content. This upload is left to the clients. See the docs.

To install the controller routes, mount the `Fog::Engine` in your `routes.rb` file:
```ruby
# in routes.rb
mount Fogged::Engine => "/"
```

This will mount the following routes:
```shell
               confirm_resource PUT    /resources/:id/confirm(.:format)           fogged/resources#confirm
zencoder_notification_resources POST   /resources/zencoder_notification(.:format) fogged/resources#zencoder_notification
                      resources GET    /resources(.:format)                       fogged/resources#index
                                POST   /resources(.:format)                       fogged/resources#create
                   new_resource GET    /resources/new(.:format)                   fogged/resources#new
                  edit_resource GET    /resources/:id/edit(.:format)              fogged/resources#edit
                       resource GET    /resources/:id(.:format)                   fogged/resources#show
                                PATCH  /resources/:id(.:format)                   fogged/resources#update
                                PUT    /resources/:id(.:format)                   fogged/resources#update
                                DELETE /resources/:id(.:format)                   fogged/resources#destroy
```

Of course you can decide to mount it in a sub url:
```ruby
# in routes.rb
mount Fogged::Engine => "/files"
```

### Serializer
A `Fogged::ResourceSerializer` is provided. It is used by the `Fogged::ResourcesController` to serialize the `Fogged::Resource` object. If you are using Active Model Serializers in you project you can also reference it, to embed the `Fogged::Resource` into an other object.

## Dependencies

Fogged uses these libs:
* [Fog](http://fog.io). See all the supported [providers](http://fog.io/about/provider_documentation.html)
* [FastImage](https://github.com/sdsykes/fastimage)
* [Active Model Serializers](https://github.com/rails-api/active_model_serializers)

## License

This project rocks and uses MIT-LICENSE.
